uh so I think we are also on time um so
let's get started and uh at this uh end
of the very long day or at least the
conference part um so hopefully I can
keep you awake while you deal with the
last talk this will be more of a a a
collection of stories so even if you
sewn out for a bit uh it should still be
okay and you can pick up where you when
you wake up again uh so my name is
Rasmus uh I live here in Copenhagen or
just north of Copenhagen with my family
uh I've been writing code for about 30
years now uh 18 of those years have been
professionally or at least where have
done it full-time uh I'm currently at
tempy previously I've been at Microsoft
and samaron and I'm basically always
building something and that's also the
reason that I'm I'm giving this talk is
you know I'm fascinated with the whole
idea of being able to build software
right you don't really need anything you
just sit down with your computer and
your imagination and you can create
something from nothing um and you know
and then I see you know colleagues and
Friends uh and they might not be
building software outside of work and
that's also perfectly okay but at least
I feel like I've gotten a lot out of it
and so I kind of wanted to share uh my
story at least about side projects and
so this is a story
about uh
the the side project project that I have
that I've put the most time into so it's
a website that I started eight years ago
and then of course also hopefully you'll
get some of my advice and my experience
and what I've learned over the over the
years and so side projects what what is
a side project um like from the name
it's pretty clear that it's something
that's not your main occupation right so
it's something that you're doing outside
of work um or studying or whatever um
and there's usually a lot of different
reasons that people do side projects
right and I at least have been burned by
this a few times in the past and and my
reflection has been that it's always
good to just just briefly think about
what am I trying to do here like why am
I writing this code because that will
help you with whatever you're trying to
accomplish and the problem is that
usually when you mix these together
you're going to have a bad experience or
at least everything is going to take a
lot longer and so I usually like to put
uh side projects into four buckets there
could be four main reasons at least in
in for me uh that I would try and create
something and the first two are more
like internal uh reasons for me uh one
could be you know I've been looking at
rust on Hacker News for the the past
three months it's it's got a lot of hype
I want to try it out I want to fight uh
with the ownership model and everything
um and so I want to learn something
that's the the reason that I'm I'm
sitting down to write this code could
also be that you actually want to create
create something you have something in
your life where you're thinking I want
to automate this I want to create
something that can help someone I want
to you know whatever whatever it might
be you're trying to create something
you're trying to get from to something
actually working it could be a showcase
so it could be a demo for a presentation
it could be you trying to show off your
skills for job hunting or other things
and what I find with showcase side
projects is that they're usually you
know very focused it's usually less code
maybe higher quality or at least you
know showing some different property of
um of of what you're trying to to show
and then of course uh it could be that
you are starting a side project because
you want to earn more money for profit
and I think while there might be things
in this talk that you can use for that
there's also a huge uh amount of
information on starting businesses and
startups uh and I think you know things
here will mainly focus on the create uh
uh goal uh but um I mean some of it will
be useful regardless but there's I would
recommend also looking into the whole
startup uh all the information on
startups so what I find with the the
ones that I mix up the most is these two
right the internal reasons so I decide
that I want to create something I want
to sit down and the reason that this
Burns me is that if I want to learn
something and I also want to create
something at the same time usually I
fall into all the friction that this new
technology that I'm bringing in will
will will have and so it means that it
takes a lot longer for me to create
something and so when I want to create
something usually my advice would be to
take some technology that you know one
thing that's worked really well for me
is to take the stack that I use at work
because that has other benefits and
usually it's a stack where you're
already
productive uh and then of course there
might be some technology that's
necessary for your crazy idea that
you're trying to do but then at least
try to reduce the amount of new things
that you're taking in at the beginning
and actually I would advise for the same
thing with learn maybe don't take you
know rust and web sockets and something
new database but then take one of them
and take some technologies that you know
and this doesn't need to be a long
process it's just reflecting just
briefly before you start it's just like
what am I trying to do here do I want to
create something or do I want to learn
something and because you're usually
constrained on something and usually
it's time um yeah and
so uh what might uh what might these
side predicts uh look like
uh I have I I don't know maybe created
100 side projects over the year right
some have been just an evening some have
been some code that I've been using for
a long time one example could be I
created a a brow a a Windows Launcher
for myself uh some uh many years ago uh
10 years ago by now and I still use it
every day I think I'm the only user now
but it's available on GitHub if you want
want to try it out but there are lots of
Windows launchers these days but I I
don't know I had some some users at work
once but um yeah uh another thing could
be to try and create some uh some old
Google AI competition uh this is a a
side project called Space Battles it's
started as a hackathon weekend with
yesper who's in the audience and he's
actually the one running it now it could
also be and this is the only reference
to AI in this talk um but this was
actually there were these competitions
that were called Google AI uh
competitions and they were actually a WR
about writing Bots that would then fight
each other in this this space world uh
another application that you might write
is uh that you want to create something
for actually managing your life uh notes
projects tasks whatever uh and you just
haven't been able to find the right tool
for yourself um and this if you look at
the at the list over here you can also
see that this is one where I've
basically been burned a lot on uh on the
technology front and I'm on the nth
rewrite of this app uh but I'm actually
pretty happy with it now uh the main
problem with an app such as this one is
that you want something that's both
crossplatform but you also want your
data to be local and that turns out to
be pretty complicated especially if
you're limited on time and and effort
and so these are just three examples of
side projects there could be a bunch
more uh you probably have some
interesting ones as well um and so this
brings me to the main side project that
I'm going to talk talk about today which
is called pe. ninja kind of happened as
an accident but that is actually the
full domain name of the of the site um
and it is a a a website that tracks
statistics in a video game called Path
of Exile and it's a bit random uh but
that's what I've been building for the
last eight years um and just for
reference does like who actually knows
Path of
Exile okay there's a few people at least
that's good I will give a short
introduction to what path of XL is uh
anyway uh so Path of Exile is an arpg an
action role playing game uh if you know
Diablo or last Epoch uh
then PA of Exile is very similar uh it's
a relatively old game it was released uh
the first version in 2013 uh by a
company called grinding gear games uh
from New
Zealand and uh I think what Path of
Exile does really well is it really
leans into complexity and gives you a
lot of options and I think uh some of
the main parts that it really lean into
is very deep character building so the
the premise of the game is basically you
have to build a character that will
become increasingly better at killing
monsters right that is the that's the
point um and so it gives you a lot of
tools to do that and one like Infamous
example is a bit hard to see here up on
the monitor but this is the the the
passive skill tree from Path of Exile
and you can see that it's a huge graph
and basically one of the things that you
do when you create a character is that
you make a path in this tree and pick up
a lot of of different bonuses that you
want and you know a quote over here from
someone on Reddit which is not an
uncommon quote at all you know I have
11,000 hours in this game and I'm still
learning something new every day that
talks a bit into the complexity of this
game um and when you have something
that's
complex it usually also means that
software developers like me who maybe
are not so good at playing the game we
feel like uh well maybe you know at
least I can play with some data um and
have fun um and just to give you a brief
idea let's see if this works but here's
just like 20 seconds of gameplay just if
you haven't seen the game I took one
that's not too crazy on the on the
movement and and stuff but this is what
the game looks like right you have some
lives some mana and then you basically
run around and kill monsters and it goes
faster and faster
basically all right so pe. ninja so
eight years ago I was playing this game
with my friend
and um path Al has this player driven
economy and that means that the it's
pretty hard to figure out what things
are worth and he was frustrated he was
like I want to buy this
item I have all these things I don't
know what they're worth I mean how how
am I get going to get from here to to
actually buying the things that I want
and he was like I wish that someone
would just create an overview that would
show me what things are worth and and
the game had recently released an
API and I thought well sounds fun I'll
sit down for a weekend and I'll try and
and build something and I did and then I
posted it on Reddit and people really
liked it and I thought okay that was
that was good uh and I it was useful to
me as well and so I thought okay let's
just keep building this thing and I kind
of just kept on expanding it and then
here we are8 years later I'm still
building it like there been on and off
uh times of course um but you know it's
been my entertainment for the last eight
years uh when I've been not been working
all and um so just to give you an idea
of the scope of the project uh it's
written in C spet Core it has a react
front end in typescript it's processed
uh nearly 500 terab of data from the API
at this point uh and it served a lot
more for sure uh it's about 50,000 lines
of code usually the split is uh pretty
even between C and typescript but I
think I deleted a lot of typescript
recently so um it's it's a a bit heavy
on the C uh side now um and for the the
graph you see at the bottom here is the
the daily uh daily page views uh and you
can see that it goes into the range of
maybe between two and four million uh
page views per day and that means that
it is something in the range of maybe
like 5 to 10,000 top website in the
world so it's that's where it's about uh
and for you know daily users it's around
200,000 uh currently with the with the
current lead that's going on and you can
also see here that Path of Exile is a
game that that actually has this league
so every three months three or four
months they will release a new version
and then you know people will come back
and then it'll kind of go down and then
they'll come back and you can see that
that has kept on going they had some
some uh some pretty unpopular leaks in
2022 as you can see but then you know
they kind of recovered from that uh in
2023 um and so now we're getting into
the the whole story part about what what
did I actually learn then from from
doing this project over these these last
eight years and the first one I'm going
to take you through is one called
Embrace constraints
and when you're starting a side project
you're going to be constrained in some
way right you're are going to be
constrained financially you won't have
money to go out and buy a huge Server
Like There's No Revenue there's no
nothing uh you can't buy an expensive
database license um you will be
constrained on time for sure this is a
side project it's not your main
occupation uh so time and energy a lot
of that will go into your main
occupation and then you're kind of doing
this on the
side uh but you'll also be constrained
on people right most of the time usually
when you start up you're just one person
or maybe a few uh but it also means that
like there's a limit to how much code
you can write like you can't write as
much code as a team but on the other
hand you also don't have to coordinate
with a team so you can make decisions a
lot faster so I mean there are pros and
cons but you are definitely constrained
on many things and one of the
constraints that I I picked up recently
that kind of became a design goal for me
in this project was that because it as
it happened I was deploying this site to
an an Asha app service and because of
the whole financial reasons it had one
core and so I thought you know part of
Exile is a big game there's a big
audience let's build this site so it can
run on a single CPU call that was kind
of my design goal um and what does it
mean to run on a single call well it
means that if you have a request that
takes a th000 milliseconds then you're
going to be serving one request per
second right and if you go above that
one request per second bad things are
going to happen like your service is
going to fall over and die like you're
going to go zero requests really quick
if you can bring it down to to 10
milliseconds per per request then
suddenly you can serve 100 per second
right so you can actually serve a lot on
a on a single core if you just uh if you
build it right and what you can see here
on the bottom is actually uh from last
week from my monitoring software this is
the response times from my back end
measured by engine x uh on the same
server uh but you can see that actually
the the 50th and 75th percentile they're
both zero and then the 99th percentile
is
0.011 and this this is because enginex
doesn't report anything less than 1
millisecond and so the 75th percentile
of all requests take below 1 millisecond
today uh which is which makes me very
happy because it means that I can still
run it on on uh very few
resources um I've later I mean so I
started out with a single core but I've
later expanded this to be a single ser
so all the all the bad complexity
happens when you go into multiple
servers and distributed systems I do
that at work um but if you're a single
person keeping everything on one server
really helps uh so I'm I'm fighting
pretty hard to to keep that um and so
this went fine for about the the first
two years but then I was like H I've
covered most of the economy in this game
maybe I should try something new and I
was like uh it's always hard with these
characters I would love to
I always have problems figuring out
exactly how to build maybe if I could
build something where I would be able to
explore data from other how other people
are building their characters maybe if I
could do that you know that would be
helpful to add um but the economy part
was pretty easy right I was collecting
data aggregating it serving it it's
pretty simple to do on a single call but
then you know this build site this is
what it looked like back then when I
released it it looks very different now
but or at least somewhat different um
but how do you build like faceted search
sorting and search on a single core
right that's going to be hard with a big
audience um and so I remembered a
library I had seen that was called cross
filter and um it was made by Mike Bok
who also created
d3js um and the approach they took was
basically to say we're going to serve
all the data to the front end and then
we're going to just do all the filtering
in the front end and that sounded very
appealing like given my constraint that
sounded like a great
idea um and so I had two challenges
right there was 15,000 characters on the
ladder uh of the game that I had to
download and then I needed to make sure
that I could make this data set small
enough so I could reasonably serve it to
a front end and then of course I I
needed to to create some Logic for
actually filtering
this um and it turned down turned out
that I could get it down to like maybe 5
megabytes of Json and if I GED that it
was like 500 kiloby that was a
acceptable I could serve that and
crossfilter was using bit sets and if
you haven't looked into bit sets a lot
they're magical and computers are really
fast the filtering was also really good
uh with the with these bit sets just in
JavaScript and uh it basically you had a
short loading period and then all the
filtering was near instant also on
phones so that was great and and this
worked out well and let me just show you
exactly what it looks like today just to
give you an idea if you haven't seen the
site uh but so this is basically Bally a
list of all the characters you can see
that the UI is a bit nicer now um and
what you can also see here like for
instance you can see the passive tree
this is a heat map of what the like n
like now
97 uh, characters are are building and
if we go and say okay I want to look at
all the Slayers you can see that the
heat map then changes and we can dive in
so everything is basically we can
explore this data set right and we can
we can kind of drill into the data and
it should be nice and fast and fun to
explore uh and you can actually also
press the heat map and say I want
everyone who's actually using this note
and then it'll actually also fil the the
heat map I don't think a lot of people
know that um but now at least it's
shared with the world um and so that was
great uh that was a fun experience and
uh something I again I wouldn't have
done it at work right I wouldn't have
pushed all the data and doing the
filtering uh on the front end but
because I had this constraint and I
leaned into it it became more of a
creative challenge to find a solution to
this problem but um the problems didn't
stop there unfortunately so it turned
out that 15,000 characters was not
enough uh because people were reaching
the max level faster and my side kind of
got stale after that um so gr gear games
released another API I increased my goal
to be Ser be able to serve 100,000
characters but this also meant that the
Gip Json suddenly was maybe 5 megabytes
and so we're getting into the space
where maybe it's not so fun to search
anymore and also getting into the space
where phones don't really like it uh
anymore it's getting too much data and
so I started looking into like okay how
can I make this better and still keep my
constraint
running and I looked at a lot of column
databases that's usually what you'll get
into if you're looking at these
analytical queries and I I tried out a
lot of them um it but they were all
they're not they were not fast enough uh
for what I was trying to do on a single
server and so I had an idea that you
know I could try and build a database
myself uh but whenever you think that
you should build a data database
yourself you should stop and and you
should not do it unless like you look
around and you're in a database startup
then you can do it but otherwise don't
don't don't go there so I kind of put it
off I thought I that's that's crazy
um but a few months later I decided to
do like a prototype and see you know
would it work
and it did work and so I continued
building it and so I did build a
database but I but it was a very so what
I built was a very specialized database
that is made for exactly this use case
and it's also made to be very cashable
by Cloud flare who's in front of my site
um and so I think you know in total it's
maybe one 2,000 lines of C code so it's
not a it's not a huge project um but I I
finished it and I launched it and that
was the one that you saw before uh still
very fast and it actually responds with
to these queries in most of the time 1
millisecond but then up to maybe 5
milliseconds people are doing crazy
crazy sorting or something um so that
was quite fun and again I'll repeat bit
sets are magic uh it's really the the
main driving force behind this this uh
this database uh and just to to give you
an idea so there's like three
3,000 Dimensions you can see all the
ones on the left we need to do a count
of each of them across 100,000
characters so that's more than 300
million operations right 300 million
comparisons but because it's using bit
sets that's just very fast and can be
done in one one millisecond which is
amazing um but actually I almost gave up
on this uh back in
2021 um
because I I was at this point I was at a
a server a virtual server with 16
Calles and I had been watching my CPU
usage go up and up as more users kind of
use the site and it had been it had been
very gradual but this was what I was
looking at in 2021 and this is before I
did the whole you know build a database
stuff um and so I was looking at this
graph and I was like okay maybe now is
the time actually to drop my constraint
maybe now is the time to start designing
a distributed system or at least
figuring out how to to offload some of
this and um I tried profiling it's
pretty hard to know exactly what your
production server is doing I couldn't
really find the the root course but
luckily one day when I was uh profiling
something else the the application
startup time um I noticed that there was
a bit of code that was uh collecting
some data and serializing Json uh and
putting it into the HTML of the page so
basically since I'm I'm I'm caching a
lot in front of my site I also include
some IDs in the HTML to kind of break uh
all the caching so that you can see the
new data um and what clicked for me in
that moment was that since this is
embedded into the HTML it means that
this code will run on all the unique
URLs that people hit and so that's
actually quite a significant amount of
traffic coming into my site and I
thought okay I mean I didn't really
think that that was the issue at that
point but I thought no what the heck let
me try and see I'll just cash it it
doesn't change very frequently so I mean
I could just catch it for one minute and
that would kind of remove that load and
I I did and then I deployed
it and my server load fell to four
course and so that's just also a note on
whatever you think your production
server is
doing I had no idea that my server was
spending 10 calls serializing Json for
the HTML like that was crazy to me so I
mean whenever you're guessing anything
so this is not actually about side
projects this about profiling in general
whenever you have the idea of what a
performance problem is you need to
measure and you need to find the issue
because it's not it's usually not what
you
think so that was about leaning into um
leaning into constraints and using them
as not a bad thing but actually use them
as a creative challenge it's also
because maybe I like solving these
problems uh and so that's what's good
for me in a side
project so incremental learning and
Innovation so I told you in the
beginning that you should think about
not introducing a lot of technology in
your when you're trying to create
something
um but it's fine to do it over time
right once you've worked on a side
project for a little bit you have a a
working base and now is the time that
you can start bringing in new
technologies and you can play around
with it because these migrations that
maybe take a long time at work mostly
because you don't want to have any
downtime or anything else they're
actually pretty fast in a a um when
you're just one person right you can
basically just change change it there's
no training others there's no
discussions you can basically just do it
and so these migrations that we're used
to are very expensive might not actually
be so in a side project so it makes a
lot of sense to kind of lean into this
over time and also this is also about
the whole uh choosing the same Tex stack
as as work is that
when you when you work on a side project
you're suddenly responsible for all of
it right you're are responsible for the
whole stack you're responsible for the
server the infrastructure the pipelines
the backend code the front end code
everything um and it means that if you
use the same stack as work you're going
to get into a lot of other Corners that
maybe other teams or other team members
are responsible for at work and that
certainly means that you know a lot uh
that others might not uh which is very
beneficial at least this is one of the
benefits that I've found in my career is
that usually when people talked about
something I had played around with it in
some random side project and I would
know something about it more so more
than just the
documentation um and so the story I want
to tell you here is actually just the
the evolution of the infrastructure to
show you how that evolved over time and
how I kind of grew it of course you know
it's natural that infrastructure will
grow over time but you can even actually
do relatively big shifts especially when
you're just one person um and especially
if you also take some knowledge that you
already have from work and you apply it
so this was the initial version that I
told you about before right I had an
aure app service Asher SQL and the path
of XL API and I was just deploying code
directly from my machine because you
know Asher app service makes that pretty
easy so that was kind of the lowest
friction I could could take to just get
something
out and so this is what it looks like
today uh and don't don't be scared by
the the whole kubernetes thing uh I I'll
get to that um but basically what
happened is that in
2017 uh I moved off of Asher I could see
that that was was would not be realistic
in terms of you know erress traffic and
and everything else and also just
scaling up uh the server a bit more uh
so I and this was also just about the
time that as. net core actually was
getting really solid on Linux so I moved
to a Linux server uh I switched to postr
which I can definitely recommend I put
an engine X in front of it and I added
Cloud flare as well um then in 2018 I
added pipelines I added humo for
monitoring because we were using it at
work uh and it was really nice to use um
I also by this time had moved servers a
few times and we had used anable at a
previous job so I introduced some anable
scripts for provisioning my machines so
whenever I moved to a new server
whenever I needed to scale up further I
would apply my anable scripts then in
2019 I in I added another um Community
tool from um From the Path of Exile
Community called the path of building to
do a lot of the calculations for me uh
and I put this in a Docker container and
then in 2022 because I was looking for
better ways to do zero downtime
deployments I then added kubernetes but
again this is the the scariest
kubernetes installation that you've ever
seen right it's a single node kubernetes
cluster that mounts stuff directly from
disk right it's not a it's not it's not
it's not a complicated version of
kubernetes it's basically just the Bare
Essentials of kubernetes which I already
had had had a good idea about from work
but I I definitely got deeper in uh like
this but the main purpose that I have
kubernetes here is to manage the path of
building dogger instances and do zero
downtime deployments on my on my main
dogger image so it's a bare a bare the
the Least Complicated kuet setup you can
do basically and so this is just to give
you an idea of you know how it can
evolve over time and then just taking
stuff that you already know from work
and then slowly building it out and none
of these migrations have been very bad I
mean I think the worst one was probably
the postest one because changing
databases always hurt a little bit uh
and lately I've been exp exploring uh
Cloud flare R2 which is a an alternative
to S3 and blob storage basically for
some more more fire storage and also you
can see also integrated a few more
apis um and so the next thing is that
when you have a side project it is uh
it's important to remember that it is in
fact a side project and I think
especially if you have a long running
side project like this one sometimes you
will get lost in the project and you'll
start thinking about how can I grow the
site how can I you know how can I make
all these things better and maybe maybe
they're not the thing that you want to
do but it's the thing that you think is
The Logical next step for the site it's
the right thing to do for the product
and I know that I'm at least actively
working on op I remind myself of this
that this is my side project this is
something that's supposed to give me
energy something I'm supposed to be
passionate about because like why else
would I be doing it uh and so I actively
have to take out of the how do I grow
the site and think okay what do I think
is fun like what do I want to do next
and is that to you know dive into
machine learning or is it something else
uh there's always a ton of options
always a ton of things that you can do
uh but I think it's it's important to
remember that this exists to if if you
are actually looking to create something
it's important to remember uh to to
optimize for fun because otherwise you
might just stop doing it uh and so one
of the things that I've decided is that
it's not open source there's been a
number of people over the years that
have um asked whether or not they could
contribute and I of course I'm happy
that they would uh and it would be great
to have some more uh development power
on the site but
I realized pretty early that this is my
playground this is where I get my energy
and especially as my career has
progressed and I've moved further away
from code having this project that I can
go back to and I can play around with
code and actually you know feel the feel
the metal uh really helps uh me also
keeping my programming skills up to date
and again if I have to make technology
choices at my at my job
me having played around with it at least
that's how I work uh I I don't like
reading about things I like using it
that's how I learn so I I need this
project to to um and I I want to write
code I don't want to manage P requests I
don't want to manage issues I'll take
the occasional bu report I respond to
people that write to me but I I don't
want all the I I just want to write some
code that's basically the goal of the
project um and the other story here is a
bit of a sad one at least for me but um
so in 2020 uh after I had released this
build site I suddenly got an email from
um and you can see that everything looks
a bit funky up here um it's because it's
in Korean um but I got uh I got
contacted by a company called caco games
and they are the a Korean company that
runs the Korean realm in Path of Exile
and they had a problem they had a bunch
of
users uh that really wanted to use my
site and there was a huge language
barrier for them they the English was
not uh was not good for them so they
reached out to say like can we can we
figure something out uh we're happy to
help with translations and other things
that you need uh but can you provide the
site in Korean and I thought I mean sure
uh let's I I would give it a try uh and
I built a small translation system for
the front end I spent some time
extracting language data from the game
files it took a few weeks it wasn't it
wasn't a huge task um and actually I
reached out to grinding year games they
were nice enough to also uh use their
translators to translate all the UI
strings I had so I actually launched
this with seven languages uh which was
super nice and
um then
everything kind of slowed down a little
bit because what I hadn't thought about
is that when I added this translation
system it actually meant that I suddenly
couldn't do changes anymore I didn't
have a team supporting me I didn't have
someone who could go out and create new
translations so if I wanted to change
the UI and break something up I would
now need to go and find these
translations somewhere and I would need
to create new translation strings and
everything and that adds a lot of
friction when you only have one person's
time and it was also work that I didn't
think was fun
and
so I kind
of slowed down my Pace I didn't really
know why at the time but I stopped
working on the side as
much
um and then I think in
2023 I kind of realized what it was and
I took the somewhat painful decision of
ripping out the entire translation
system and deleting it because it meant
that I wasn't building the site and if I
have to optimize for fun it also means
that it needs to be something that keeps
me building and this was taking all the
energy out of the work for me and um
yeah it's I was sad to remove it because
I know that it helped some people but it
was it was the only path forward for me
and of course you know if if I had had a
team if it had been a company if
something else then it might have been a
different story but um it's just me so
that was the decision and that really
helped a lot though like that was the
good part I really picked up the
development so you can also see this is
in 20 23 this is just before I did the
whole you know build your own database
idea thing
um and so the last section here is
unexpected events so if you build
something like this and it takes off
you're also going to have some weird
things happening uh of of course like
it's over eight years right I think the
Koo game one was also so a bit
unexpected
um and so the first one that I'll tell
you about here is uh back in 2018 after
I launched the the build
site uh there's a a big Chinese company
called tensent who bought a large chunk
of Path of Exile and grinding gear games
and um I I got some emails from them and
again here there was a pretty large
language barrier and they were talking
about a project I didn't really know
what it was I tried to ask they
responded but I didn't really understand
what they were trying to do I wished
them luck with the project and the
conversation kind of turned down and
then a few months went by and I didn't
think anymore of it uh and then I wake
up one morning and I'm like my Reddit
inbox is like full of messages I have an
email from tensent uh in my inbox as
well they're talking about the launch of
their project and I'm a bit confused I
don't know exactly what they're talking
about but I click the link and I see
this and so if you remember what you saw
before this looks
familiar um so this do you remember that
I told you that I built the the build
site in a way where you just needed to
supply the data from the back end well
that's what they did so they they um
they had copied my front end code and
they had implemented a new back end and
then uh and then they had launched that
on the Chinese realm and I was a bit
surprised um and you know I wrote back
to them and we discussed back and forth
also talk to grinding gear games and
they were helpful um and it turned it
was a misunderstanding they thought that
I had okay this um and we talked back
and forth no how can we do this I knew
for a fact that I wouldn't go into the
Chinese realm the Chinese API is and
Chinese and yeah let's not go let's not
go back to the the languages uh even
though this happened before but I knew
that I I would didn't want to enter the
the the Chinese realm and so in the end
I I said
um I was actually okay with them running
this on the Chinese realm because I knew
that it would help people and I said you
know just don't bring it to the
international realm and also would could
you add a link back to my site and they
added this thing at the top you can see
the the green one there and it it's a
small button that says something I can't
read ninja something I can't read Rasmus
and it says I believe it says like
special thanks to the ninja author
Rasmus and to this day this side is
still running by the way but to this day
this button up here is actually one of
my largest uh direct traffic
sources which is a bit but this was an
unexpected so I mean I can cross off the
whole you know running on a a large
Chinese company website uh off my list
uh the second one was uh torch light
infinite uh that launched in
2022 uh it's a a also an arbd uh also
very very inspired by Path of Exile and
they reached out to me um and probably
also other community uh builders in Path
of Exile and asked you know do you want
to build a site for this new game that
we're launching and I thought you know
looks kind of part of Exile uh there was
a lot of the systems that were the same
I thought you know I have all this tech
for my build site I could probably build
one uh and that would probably be fun
and I said yeah sure I can I can build a
build site that that would I I would
give that a shot um and they're like no
no they're not really looking for build
side um they were thinking more like
Wiki or something else okay that's fine
but I decided to try out the game and I
played it for a while and then I found
uh out why they didn't want the build
site and that's because inside the game
uh there was this
thing and if you look at it it is you
can if you like there's the main skill
five link plus and if you go over to my
site you have my main skill five link
plus so I mean it's it's not a complete
copy but it's very similar so that turns
out the reason they didn't want the
build side is they had already built it
in inside the game basically um so yeah
um and the last one uh of these stories
here uh is uh Exile conon so Path of
Exile uh or grinding gear Games held a a
conference last year called Exile conon
and uh because of this project I decided
to buy a ticket and travel uh to New
Zealand uh again I cannot recommend
traveling to New Zealand for six days uh
but the the trip was good uh and it was
really amazing uh I got to talk to a lot
of players that are much more hardcore
at Path of Exile than me for sure uh uh
and I I uh I more importantly I got to
talk to a lot of the other uh Community
tool creators uh at the event and also
got a chance to talk to a lot of people
from grinding gear games and also
especially to sit down with the web team
which are the the people that I I
collaborate mostly with at grinding gear
games and the ones that are doing all of
the API work um so yeah that was a a big
experience that I definitely wouldn't
have done if I hadn't if it hadn't been
for this
project um and yeah I think uh that kind
of concludes the the war Story part of
this so to recap I would uh I would
encourage you to go and build something
can be a small thing it like as I said
you know I think I've done a 100 side
projects this is the biggest one uh it
can also just be a small thing that you
automate today that will help you
tomorrow or maybe you'll you'll discard
it but you'll probably learn something
but when you do pick an appropriate
approach uh for what you're trying to do
just reflect think what am I trying to
do here am I creating or learning
especially be mindful of your
constraints use them as a force instead
of seeing them as a limitation find
creative ways around these building
blocks and again you'll learn a lot as
you go you'll also do things that you
would never do at work uh and that will
seem like horrible ideas but turn out to
actually work um add Innovation and new
tech as you go try to reduce it in the
beginning and remember remember to have
fun and I think uh that also brings you
to the brings us to the end um and yeah
remember to evaluate the talk uh if you
have any questions I'm happy to answer
and if you want a Ninja sticker you can
also come up here and get
[Applause]
one question do you have to put any
money
uh
do uh I I actually also pay for cloud
flare uh one of the one of the plans uh
but I I do have ads on the side so it
does generate some Revenue uh so I don't
I don't pay for the hosting
edore uh I have had both uh people want
to sell
r&t uh ads on my site at least uh and
there has been some people interested in
buying the side yes I've had some
conversations but I I decided to keep
it any other questions one features
can what what do you
want I'm not sure okay no I was actually
I was thinking about uh one of the the
things that is exist in many other game
statistic sites is actually a more so
this is very power user right this is
like you you need to know what you're
doing I want to look at jugg and ODS I
want to see you know I want to look at
you know a specific skill you still need
to know a lot of this it's hard to see
exactly what's popular so one thing I've
considered is to actually do uh a more
like condensed what is the current meta
what are the popular builds more like an
overview instead uh another thing I
recently started is to actually whenever
this overview is created I'll actually
save some pet files that I'm going to
try and look at in Doc DB and see if I
can generate some some uh some good
information over time on like what
ascendancies and skills and stuff have
been popular over time uh so things like
that uh another area that I want to go
into which is a bit hard is I would love
to try and do some machine learning on
some of this data but you know there's
there's a lot of of different options
that you can can go for and if you have
any ideas then like write me and I'll
I'll look at it I have a very long list
of things I want to do uh but usually
some people also come up with bad
ideas yes how of do you still play uh
I'm playing right now I still play I I
usually play every League I had you know
in the Years where it kind of slowed
down I I didn't play as much um but I I
do still play every League mostly also
just to keep the site up to date but I
mean with the current league I've been
having uh some fun as well
yes
yeah uh I think they are fairly
protective but they're also
collaborating with Community sites for
sure um I think the the main limitation
is probably people I think grinding gear
game is primarily a game uh Design
Studio they build games they don't build
apis that's not their main thing uh so
they do have the web team uh that I know
of uh that that create apis but it's not
the primary thing that happens at gr
gear games so I think that's also why
some sometimes that will just be lacking
behind I think it's just a lack of
Manpower because they're really right
now uh they're also building Path of
Exile 2 which is a huge a huge thing uh
and so I think it's I I don't think they
are they are uh they are conscious about
you know privacy issues and stuff uh
definitely some limitations around that
when using their apis but other than
that you know they they've made a lot of
uh of data available at least um I think
what they say is also don't you know
don't monetize calling our API more
don't please don't do that right but
other than that I think they are
relatively
open
yes uh it varies a lot I think uh just
like leagues and Path of Exile my effort
also goes up and down uh whenever I
whenever I also have a need to build
stuff uh but I think I know anywhere
from I think most week most weeks will
probably one to 5 hours or something
like that uh but some things if I'm like
building a database or something else it
might be more if I'm doing something at
that I think is fun um I usually have
too many things active that I want to do
at once in this project so I mean
there's a lot of of ongoing stuff that
that uh that is
unreleased
yes yes it
has um it has because but there was
actually not my fault but it there was a
new version it's been down for other
reasons I accidentally deleted the
database once
but but actually since none of my apis
actually called the database the side
was actually not down but
um it has been down once because there
was an asp.net upgrade uh at some point
where the they had an API That was
supposed to be async and in that version
I think it was like 2.2 it's a long time
ago but they they had a bug where that
was suddenly synchronous instead of
async and because I am handling a lot of
traffic on one server that single thing
just caused my acpu to go to max out and
just die uh and it was actually pretty
hard to actually deploy a new version
because the the server was completely
overwhelmed but other than
that I don't think so I don't think so
no any more questions otherwise also I'm
here U the entire conference so just
come and find me or find me on Discord
one more question
One
Core I don't know I think I just made
the decision that I would serve
everything from either memory or static
file that was kind of the initial
thought I had I just knew that I had
very limited resources I knew that the
the community was big so I was like I
need to do something to do it and if you
think about it having economy data it is
very much just about collecting all this
data and then running some aggregations
over it and so producing an overview in
adjacent file instead of creating that
overview on every request makes a lot of
sense regardless so it kind of just it
fell naturally out of the problem as
well but I I did think about you know
this is this is going to be a problem if
anyone uses
it but the other thing I have is like if
if you are doing data it has to be fast
right if you're exploring data you you
have to be able to click and get a
response quickly because otherwise it's
not going to be fun you're not going to
be if you're waiting 3 seconds every
time you click one of these filters
you're not going to be exploring you're
not going to be looking at the data for
very
long all
right looks like the questions have
stopped thank you thank you for